=head1 NAME

orphand - Orphan Process Killer

=head2 SYNOPSIS

    orphand

See C<client.pl> for an example client written in Perl. It spawns several
children, then dies. C<orphand> reaps them during its next sweep

=head2 DESCRIPTION

C<orphand> attempts to act as a simple daemon which monitors children of
I<spawners>. Simply tell orphand (via a Unix socket) about which proceeses
should be killed off when a given other process dies, and C<orphand> will comply.

C<orphand> will have no dependencies outside of the normal facilities provided
by POSIX.

It is intended to be extremely light weight and extremely reliable. Considering
this is a first release, i doubt its reliability.

C<orphand> is meant to provide an extra safety net if having lingering orphan
processes is a huge cost (generally because those processes may be using up
valuable local (CPU,RAM,I/O) resources, and even worse, global resources (TCP
connections).

It would be nice if orphand was able to automatically handle grandchildren, but
this would involve using C<ptrace(2)> and a whole other can of worms. Generally
just dealing with child processes should be easy enough.

=head2 SECURITY

In its current state, orphand is not I<secure>, what this means is that any
process has the ability to tell orphand to terminate any other process when
any other arbitrary process terminates. Effectively making it an open proxy
for C<kill(2)>.

While I do plan to make some kinds of basic sanity checks about how orpahnd
decides what is and is not a valid request, it is by no means suited for a
multi-user environment.

While the above should be obvious, it is just a disclaimer.

Additionally, oprhand gets its state information via polling. Until orphand
is implemnted as a kernel module (and I plan for this to happen one day), there
is a slight possibility that the PID which was registered as a child would have
died, and a different, unrelated process would have spawned with the same PID.
While this is highly unlikely, it is certainly a risk, and certainly producable
if malicious intent is involved.

As an attempt to alleviate the possibility of C<orphand> killing the wrong
process with the same registration number, C<orphand> checks the creation time
of each process

=head2 GOODIES

There is also a library C<orphand-forkwait.so> intended to be used as a
C<LD_PRELOAD> injection, as so

    LD_PRELOAD=/path/to/orphand-forkwait.so program

You may also specify the path to the socket for the library by setting
C<ORPHAND_SOCKET> in the environment.

The library works by overriding calls to C<fork(2)>, C<waitpid(2)> and
C<wait(2)> with variants that register and unregister PIDs, as appropriate.
Using this library eliminates the need to re-write an application in order
to notify C<orphand> about its process events.

The library then calls the 'next' real version of the system call, and
for this it relies on being able to find the system's C library, currently
hard-coded as C<libc.so.6>. It should be changed to suit your platform's
needs (i think it's C<libSystem.dylib> on darwin, for example).

=head2 MESSAGES

C<orphand> communicates over unix domain stream sockets. The message format
is as follows (this might change, but considering the application is so simple,
I don't see why it should).

    uint32_t parent; /* the parent PID */
    uint32_t child; /* the child PID */
    uint32_t action; /* the command */

Action is one of the following

=over

=item C<0x1>, REGISTER

This requests that C<child> specified should be terminated when the C<parent>
itself is no longer alive.

=item C<0x2>, UNREGISTER

Notifies C<orphand> that C<child> has been properly reaped and should not be
terminated once C<parent> has terminated.

=item C<0x3>, PING

This message simply checks for the responsiveness of C<orphand>.
If functioning properly, C<orphand> should reply in a timely manner

=back
